A.

RESPONDING TO CHALLENGES IN A NEW DECADE

A1.

Mr Speaker, Sir. I beg to move, that Parliament approves the financial policy of the
Government for the Financial Year 1st April 2020 to 31st March 2021.

A2.

This year, we usher in a new decade – one marked by tectonic shifts in our operating
environment, and major uncertainties.

Economic Outlook
A3.

Singapore’s economy grew by a modest 0.7% in 20191. This is the weakest growth
since the 2008 Financial Crisis.

A4.

Just as the global economy was beginning to recover, the Coronavirus Disease 2019,
or COVID-19, outbreak hit us.

A5.

The outbreak will certainly impact our economy.
a. The tourism and aviation industries are most directly affected. Visitor arrivals to
Singapore and air traffic through Changi have declined, and with it, hotel
occupancy rates.
b. The virus outbreak has also disrupted supply chains and created ripple effects on
other sectors, especially now that our economy is so much more integrated with
China’s.

A6.

The Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI) has downgraded the GDP forecast from
between 0.5% to 2.5%, to between -0.5% and 1.5%.
a. However, the duration and severity of this outbreak and the impact on the global
economy are still unclear.
b. While MTI’s baseline is for GDP growth to come in at 0.5% for the full year, we
must be prepared that the economic impact may be worse than we projected.

Dealing with the Immediate Challenges
A7.

Our immediate concern is to protect you and your families. We will put in every effort
to slow down the spread of the virus.
a. Our frontline agencies have been fighting and containing the outbreak. I will set
aside an additional $800 million in this Budget to support these efforts. The bulk
of this will go to the Ministry of Health. This is on top of the substantial resources
already committed each year to public health.

1

Source: Economic Survey of Singapore 2019, Ministry of Trade and Industry.

b. Let me, on behalf of the Government, express our gratitude to all our frontline
officers who have been working tirelessly, day and night, over weekends, in our
fight against the outbreak. You have exemplified the resilience and indomitable
spirit of our people. But please take care of yourselves.
c. I am confident that together, we will stay strong, and get through these trying
times.
A8.

With these uncertainties, I know Singaporeans are understandably very concerned
about the impact on our businesses and jobs.
a. I will introduce two special packages, with a total budget of $5.6 billion.
i.

The first is the Stabilisation and Support Package. This will stabilise the
economy and support our workers and enterprises, by helping workers to stay
in their jobs and enterprises with cash flow. I will give additional help to
sectors more directly affected by the outbreak.

ii.

Households will be impacted by the slowdown too. In every Budget, we always
provide support to families. But in view of the current situation, we will have
a special Care and Support Package, to provide additional, timely help to more
households with cost of living. The less well-off will get more help.

Stabilising and Supporting our Economy in the Near-Term
A9.

First, let me elaborate on how we will help our workers and enterprises to weather
the near-term economic uncertainties.

A10.

Our foremost concern is jobs. We want to help our workers retain their jobs, and use
any lull period to upgrade their skills, andbe ready when the upturn comes. As NTUC
Secretary-General Ng Chee Meng and his union leaders said, ‘Every worker matters’.

A11.

I will therefore provide a Stabilisation and Support Package, amounting to $4 billion.

A12.

To help our workers stay employed, I will support enterprises by defraying their wage
cost, through two schemes.
a. I will introduce a Jobs Support Scheme to help enterprises retain their local
workers. For every local worker in employment, I will offset 8% of the wages, up
to a monthly wage cap of $3,600, for three months.
i.

This payment will be given to employers by the end of July this year.

ii.

With over 1.9 million local employees in Singapore, this will cost the
Government $1.3 billion and benefit all enterprises and their local employees.

b. For enterprises that have invested in raising productivity, I urge them to continue
to upgrade and to share the gains with their workers. Hence, I will enhance the
Wage Credit Scheme to support wage increases for Singaporean workers.
i.

Currently, the Wage Credit Scheme co-funds wage increases for Singaporean
employees earning a gross monthly wage of up to $4,000.

ii.

I will raise the monthly wage ceiling from $4,000 to $5,000, for qualifying wage
increases given in 2019 and 2020, so that more Singaporean employees will
benefit.

iii. I will also raise the Government co-funding levels for 2019 and 2020 qualifying
wage increases by five percentage points, to 20% and 15% respectively.
iv. With these enhancements, another $1.1 billion will go to about 90,000
enterprises, to benefit more than 700,000 Singaporean employees.
A13.

The Stabilisation and Support Package will also provide economy-wide support to help
enterprises with cash flow.
a. First, I will grant a Corporate Income Tax Rebate for Year of Assessment 2020, at
a rate of 25% of tax payable, capped at $15,000 per company. This rebate will
benefit all tax-paying companies, and cost about $400 million.
b. I will also enhance several tax treatments under the corporate tax system for one
year. For instance, I will allow enterprises a faster write-down of their investments
in plant and machinery, and renovation and refurbishment, incurred for Year of
Assessment 2021. This will put more cash in the hands of our enterprises.
i.

For example, hotels can now take advantage of this lull period to carry out
upgrading work, and be better prepared for the upturn.

c. To help enterprises access working capital more easily, I will also enhance the
Enterprise Financing Scheme’s Working Capital Loan component for one year. I
will raise the maximum loan quantum from $300,000 to $600,000, and increase
our risk-share on these loans to 80%, from the current 50% to 70%. With the large
part of the risks taken up by the Government, I trust that our financial institutions
will do their part to support viable SMEs.
d. We will also support tenants and lessees of government-managed properties,
including those under JTC, HDB, SLA, STB, and SDC. They can approach our
agencies to discuss options for more flexible rental payments such as instalment
plans. Each request will be assessed individually, taking into account the
enterprise’s circumstances.
A14.

Sectors directly affected by COVID-19 will get additional support. These five sectors
are: tourism, aviation, retail, food services, and point-to-point transport services.

a. To help employers in these sectors retain and reskill workers:
i.

We will enhance support under the Adapt and Grow initiative for this year,
specifically through redeployment programmes in the tourism, aviation,
retail, and food services sectors. For these sectors, we will extend the funding
period for reskilling from three months to a maximum of six months.

ii.

Together with the Jobs Support Scheme, we will support employers in these
sectors to retain and train more than 330,000 local workers. These workers
can make full use of the down time for training and upskilling, to prepare for
the recovery.

b. We will also help affected sectors with their operating costs and cash flow. For the
tourism sector:
i.

I will grant a Property Tax Rebate of 30% for the year 2020, for the
accommodation and function room components of licensed hotels and
serviced apartments, and prescribed Meetings, Incentives, Conventions, and
Exhibitions (MICE) venues. International cruise and regional ferry terminals
will receive a 15% Property Tax Rebate, and the Integrated Resorts will receive
a 10% Property Tax Rebate.

ii.

For enterprises in the tourism sector, we will be working with Participating
Financial Institutions to introduce a Temporary Bridging Loan Programme for
a year, with a loan quantum of up to $1 million and interest rate capped at
5%. The Government will take on 80% of the risk of the loan. This will provide
more cash flow on top of the enhanced working capital loan I announced
earlier.

c. For the aviation sector:
i.

We will implement a suite of measures, comprising rebates on aircraft landing
and parking charges, assistance to ground handling agents, and rental
rebates for shops and cargo agents at Changi Airport.

ii.

I will also grant a 15% Property Tax Rebate for Changi Airport.

d. To support commercial establishments in the food services and retail business:
i.

The Government will take the lead. NEA will provide a full month of rental
waiver to stallholders in NEA-managed hawker centres and markets. Other
Government agencies, like HDB, will provide half a month of rental waiver to
its commercial tenants.

ii.

To support establishments that operate in private property, I will also grant a
15% Property Tax Rebate for qualifying commercial properties. I strongly urge
landlords to pass this on to their tenants by reducing rentals.

e. The Ministry of Transport has announced a Point-to-Point Support Package. I am
heartened to know that many taxi and private hire car operators have come out
strongly to support the initiative by matching the Government’s contribution. This
spirit of partnership is what we need to weather this challenging period together.
A15.

Details of the Stabilisation and Support Package are in the Annex. [See Annex A-1.]
The Ministers in charge of the various measures will share further details in due
course.

A16.

We will continue to monitor the situation closely. If needed, we can and are prepared
to do more.

A17.

I will speak about the Care and Support Package for households later in my speech.

Maintaining Sound Finances to Respond to Uncertainties
A18.

The COVID-19 outbreak is a stark reminder of the continued importance of
maintaining a sound fiscal footing to deal with surprises and unexpected scenarios.
a. In particular, we are able to mount a decisive response to support Singaporeans
and workers through uncertain times only because of good long-term planning.

A19.

I announced in 2018 that we plan to raise the GST by two percentage points, to 9%,
sometime from 2021 to 2025. This is to raise recurrent revenues to meet our growing
recurrent spending, particularly for healthcare.

A20.

After reviewing our revenue and expenditure projections, and considering the current
state of the economy, I have decided that the GST rate increase will not take effect
in 2021. In other words, the GST rate will remain at 7% in 2021.

A21.

However, we will not be able to put off the increase indefinitely. In fact, this outbreak
has reinforced the importance of continued investment in our healthcare system,
including the capability to deal with outbreaks. And we will still require recurrent
sources of revenue to fund our recurrent spending needs in the medium term.

A22.

Thus, the GST increase will still be needed by 2025.
a. We will assess carefully the appropriate time for the increase. But rest assured we
will provide Singaporeans sufficient lead time.

A23.

I want to assure everyone that when we raise the GST rate, we will ensure that our
taxes and transfers system remains progressive.

A24.

We will continue to absorb GST on publicly-subsidised healthcare and education.

A25.

And just as we have done in the past, we will provide an Assurance Package when the
GST rate is raised. This will be a $6 billion package for Singaporeans, to cushion the
increase as we transition to the higher GST rate.
a. GST is paid by all in Singapore, including foreigners visiting and working here. But
the Assurance Package will benefit Singaporeans.
b. The majority of Singaporean households will receive offsets to cover at least five
years’ worth of additional GST expenses incurred.
c. Lower-income households will receive much more. Those living in 1- to 3-room
HDB flats will receive offsets equivalent to about 10 years’ worth of additional GST
expenses incurred.

A26.

Under the Assurance Package for GST, every adult Singaporean will receive a cash
payout of $700 to $1,600 over five years.
a. To illustrate, a family of four with a combined income of $6,000 living in a 4-room
HDB flat can receive about $7,000 in offsets over five years in total. This includes
cash of about $4,000.

A27.

Over and above the transitional support, we already have the permanent GST
Voucher or GSTV scheme. It defrays GST for lower- to middle-income Singaporeans.
When the GST is raised, I will enhance the permanent GST Voucher scheme. I will
maintain the Government’s public commitment to:
a. Fully offset the GST for the lower half of retiree households;
b. Significantly offset the GST for the upper half of retiree households; and
c. Offset about half of the GST for lower-income households with no elderly persons.

A28.

This is the Government’s way of ensuring our system of taxes and transfers remains
progressive and supports Singaporeans through the change, while enabling us to fund
our future needs in a sustainable way.

A29.

To meet this commitment, I will set aside $6 billion for the Assurance Package in the
GSTV Fund in this year’s Budget.

Navigating Long-Term Structural Shifts
A30.

Even as we navigate our near-term challenges, we must maintain our focus on the
longer term, and on Singapore’s future.

A31.

I have spoken about the accelerating structural shifts in the world in my previous
Budget speeches:
a. First, the decline in support for globalisation;
b. Second, the shift in global economic weight towards Asia, which brings new
opportunities;
c. Third, the rapid advancement of technology, and more recently, the risk of a
technologically bifurcated world; and
d. Finally, our own transition to an ageing society, which presents challenges and
opportunities.

A32.

We must understand these shifts, and their deep implications, as we chart our future
together as one Singapore.

A33.

After the Second World War, nations experienced several decades of growth and
prosperity.
a. Trade barriers fell, and global trade grew rapidly.
b. Technological advances transformed people’s lives beyond recognition.

A34.

Prosperity gave governments the resources to establish comprehensive safety nets
and welfare programmes. These included unemployment benefits, pensions, and
healthcare, among others.

A35.

But at the same time, globalisation and technology created winners and losers, and
widened income inequalities between the skilled and unskilled.

A36.

There are growing sentiments that globalisation and the multilateral system have
failed.
a. As a result, nations are turning inwards. Protectionism and nativism are on the
rise.

A37.

An ageing population, disruption to jobs, and slowing economic growth are adding to
fiscal pressures.
a. Yet it is politically untenable to cut back on social benefits.
b. When governments issue debt to fund social spending, they impose a growing
debt burden on the next generation.

A38.

This is happening at a time when the global economy is experiencing weaker growth
and dampened sentiment.

a. Central banks have lowered interest rates to unprecedented levels.
b. In addition, asset purchases by central banks have resulted in abundant liquidity
and raised concerns over the formation of asset bubbles.
c. In fact, with limited fiscal space, and ultra-low or even negative interest rates,
governments and central banks are much less able to mount stabilisation
measures.
A39.

On the strategic front, the friction in the US-China relationship is a major source of
tension and uncertainty, affecting global economic growth.
a. The recent Phase One trade deal between them has headed off an immediate
escalation. But it will not resolve the underlying strategic competition. This
involves political systems, ideologies, and values, and goes way beyond trade and
technology.
b. On present trends, US-China tensions will recreate geopolitical fault lines, and
portend a bifurcated global order.

Advancing as One Singapore
A40.

I have sketched out the global structural shifts, economic uncertainties, and strategic
tensions. I trust Members will see that we are entering a very challenging time. But
we can, and we will pull through.

A41.

To deal with these major shifts, we need a capable government, working closely with
our people, and a good plan.

A42.

As a city-state, we are small, but nimble.
a. We are a trusted node for trade and investment between Asia and the world. This
is because of our political stability, commitment to rule of law and multilateralism,
ease of doing business, and strong intellectual property protection regime, among
others.
b. As a multicultural society, we have welcomed diversity and embraced openness.
Our diversity has made us stronger, and more valuable to the world.

A43.

Our biggest asset is our exceptional people.
a. We have come together and weathered many past storms, like the Global Financial
Crisis, SARS, and now, the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak.

A44.

Budget 2020 is our strategic financial plan to prepare Singapore and Singaporeans to
meet these challenges and seize new opportunities.

A45.

This Budget, I will lay out our plans in four areas:
a. First, to grow our economy, transform our enterprises, to create opportunities for
our people.
b. Second, to care for and nurture Singaporeans at every stage of their lives, to build
a caring and inclusive society, where no one is left behind.
c. Third, to build a liveable and sustainable Singapore in the face of climate change,
secure our sovereignty as an independent nation, and ensure our fiscal
sustainability.
d. And fourth, to mobilise Singaporeans to work together in this journey, to build a
nation and a home we will always call our own.

B.

GROWING OUR ECONOMY, CREATING OPPORTUNITIES FOR OUR
PEOPLE

B1.

Let me start with growing our economy and transforming our enterprises.

Singapore as a Global-Asia Node of Technology, Innovation, and Enterprise
B2.

The structural changes I described earlier bring both opportunities and challenges.
a. Technology and innovation will drive our productivity and our next phase of
growth.
b. Amidst declining support for globalisation, most of Asia remains committed to free
trade and economic integration.
c. The Asian economies have strong growth drivers, and are projected to account for
half of global GDP by 20402.

B3.

Singapore is well-positioned to make the most of these structural changes. We
recognised these changes early, and made an early start on economic transformation.
We set up the Future Economy Council, or FEC, in 2017, and now have 23 Industry
Transformation Maps, or ITMs.
a. Our restructuring is bearing fruit.
i.

In the last three years, overall productivity, as measured by real value-added
per actual hour worked, rose by 2.6% per year. This is an improvement over
the 2.2% per year growth in the preceding three-year period3.

b. Our enterprises are also entering new markets, and doing business globally.
i.

Singapore Business Federation’s 2019 National Business Survey shows that 8
in 10 enterprises have an overseas presence, up from 7 in 10 the previous
year, despite global uncertainties.

ii.

Their spirit of enterprise augurs well for the future.

c. Overall, these efforts at enterprise transformation have translated into good wage
growth.
i.

2

Between 2016 and 2019, real median income for Singaporeans grew by 3.7%
per year, up from 3.2% per year in the preceding three years4.

Source: “Asia’s Future is Now”, McKinsey Global Institute, July 2019.
Source: Ministry of Trade and Industry, Department of Statistics.
4
Median gross monthly income of full-time employed Singapore citizens including employer CPF contribution.
Source: Ministry of Manpower.
3

B4.

Two years ago, I set out our vision of Singapore as a Global-Asia node of technology,
innovation, and enterprise.
a. Our economy will be one driven by innovation and digitalisation.
b. Singapore will serve as a launch pad for multi-nationals and regional corporates to
access Asia, and for Asian enterprises to go global.
c. Our enterprises will compete on value, and reach new customers.
d. And these enterprises will be powered by a skilled, adaptable and Asia-ready
workforce.

B5.

To support this vision, in this Budget, I will introduce a set of measures to drive our
Transformation and Growth strategy. There are three key thrusts:
a. First, enabling stronger partnerships.
b. Second, deepening enterprise capabilities.
c. Third, developing our people.

B6.

Including sums allocated in previous years, I am allocating a total of $8.3 billion over
the next three years to enable Transformation and Growth.

Enabling Stronger Partnerships
B7.

Let me begin with the first thrust of our Transformation and Growth effort, which is
to enable stronger partnerships:
a. With the world, to expand our economic space, and
b. Within Singapore, to build on our work through the FEC and ITMs.

Partnerships with the World
B8.

As a small, open economy, we must continue to strengthen partnerships with the
world.

B9.

We have an extensive network of economic linkages, including Free Trade
Agreements, International Investment Agreements, and Avoidance of Double
Taxation Agreements.
a. For example, Minister Indranee signed our latest Avoidance of Double Taxation
Agreement with Indonesia earlier this month.

B10.

Beyond economic connectivity, we are enhancing our digital connectivity to create
new value.
a. Singapore Customs is connecting our Networked Trade Platform with the customs
portals of our trading partners.
b. Just last month, we concluded our first Digital Economy Agreement with Chile and
New Zealand. It will foster interoperability, and address frontier issues like artificial
intelligence governance, to enable more trade.

B11.

The digitalisation of finance will also open up new ways of doing business.
a. Between 2015 and 2019, annual investments in FinTech (Financial Technology)
have risen six-fold to over $1 billion.
b. Players from different domains and around the region are coming together to bid
for MAS’s digital banking licences.

Partnerships within Singapore
B12.

To make the most of our global links, we must strengthen partnerships within
Singapore to bring good ideas to global markets.

B13.

Under our Research, Innovation and Enterprise 2020 Plan, we are sustaining
investment into promising ideas.
a. These include artificial intelligence, industrial robotics, urban solutions and
sustainability, and the biomedical sciences, among others.

B14.

Through partnerships among the Government, industry and the research community,
we are turning these ideas into new businesses with global potential.
a. For instance, Singapore was one of the first cities to allow autonomous vehicle, or
AV, testing on public roads. Many AV players have set up here, testing their
technologies with the National University of Singapore and Nanyang Technological
University, seeking to win the global race.
b. In the biomedical industry, the number of startups has doubled from 2014. More
than 300 biomedical startups are now bringing discoveries from bench to bedside,
and looking to export them to the region.
c. In fact, our research institutes are part of the global fight against COVID-19,
developing diagnostic kits already in use here and sent to China. This is one of the
fruits of our long-term investments in research and innovation.

B15.

Within each industry, we need to strengthen partnerships to deepen industry-wide
capabilities. Even as our enterprises compete to differentiate themselves, they must
come together to solve common challenges.

B16.

Trade Associations and Chambers or TACs play an important role.
a. For example, the Container Depot and Logistics Association (Singapore) is
developing an electronic payment system that can help depot operators and
transport companies save time and cost. Details are in the Annex. [See Annex B4.]

B17.

To sustain the good progress, we will enhance our support for TACs to scale up and
raise the capabilities of their industries.
a. Enterprise Singapore will launch a pilot Executive-in-Residence programme, to
fund more than 10 TACs covering all sectors of the economy, to hire experienced
executives and provide expert advice to enterprises in their industries.

B18.

Likewise, Merchants’ Associations play a critical role in upgrading heartland
enterprises, such as what the Chong Pang City Merchant and Hawker’s Association has
done.
a. This year, Enterprise Singapore will launch a new Heartland Enterprise Upgrading
Programme to support Merchants’ Associations to drive transformation of
heartland enterprises. [See Annex B-1].

Deepening Enterprise Capabilities
B19.

I have covered how we are deepening partnerships. The second thrust of our
Transformation and Growth is to deepen capabilities, at every stage of an enterprise’s
growth. From starting up, to growing, to transforming further.
a. Our enterprises must be the incubators of innovation, the crucibles for skills
upgrading, and the creators of good jobs for our people.

B20.

Many of our enterprises are deepening their capabilities – by innovating, digitalising,
and venturing overseas.
a. These include smaller companies like Yong Leng Trading Company, a local provider
of sealing solutions for industrial customers, and PDS International, a developer
and distributor of personal protective equipment. By adopting digital platforms,
they have accessed new markets, raised revenues, and reduced costs.
b. Larger local companies are also transforming. Goldbell Group, an industrial vehicle
leasing company, launched an in-house accelerator, while Moveon, an optics
manufacturer, partnered our research institutes to develop enhanced production

technologies for micro-optical systems. More details are in the Annex. [See
Annex B-4.]
B21.

We will enhance our support to enterprises, at each stage of their growth, to deepen
their capabilities in an enterprise-centric way.

Starting Up
B22.

Let me begin with startups. Our startup ecosystem is vibrant.
a. There are about 3,800 technology startups in Singapore, and about 150 venture
capital funds investing in startups here and in the region.
b. Our startup ecosystem is ranked in the top 15 globally in the Global Startup
Ecosystem report5.

B23.

Startup SG helps startups get their ideas off the ground.
a. It provides holistic support, including co-investments, mentorship, and physical
space.
b. Through co-investment schemes like Startup SG Equity, we have catalysed over
$560 million in private sector funding over the last four years.

B24.

This year, we will improve support for deep-tech startups.
a. Deep-tech startups are those in emerging technology areas such as pharmbio and
medtech, advanced manufacturing, and agri-food tech. They have high potential
to be competitive and stimulate innovation in their sectors.
b. But these startups need larger investments, longer gestation periods, and face
higher risks. Investors are hence less prepared to invest in deep-tech startups.
c. To catalyse investment into deep-tech startups, I will set aside an additional $300
million under the Startup SG Equity. We expect this to draw in more than $800
million of private funding over the next 10 years. This will give deep-tech startups
better access to capital, expertise and industry networks. [See Annex B-1.]

Growing
B25.

Beyond startups, many enterprises, both new and established, are seeking to grow.
We have been supporting them, through schemes such as:
a. The SMEs Go Digital programme; and

5

Source: “Global Startup Ecosystem Report 2019”, Startup Genome.

b. The Market Readiness Assistance grant.
B26.

This year, we will enhance support for these enterprises through an Enterprise Grow
Package. This Package aims to help enterprises identify business needs, adopt preapproved digital technologies, and take the first steps to enter new markets.
a. First, we will launch the GoBusiness platform, a single touchpoint for enterprises
to transact with Government digitally.
b. Second, we will drive greater adoption of digital technology. We will expand the
SMEs Go Digital programme. Across all 23 ITM sectors, we will have Industry
Digital Plans or equivalents, and enable enterprises to access pre-approved digital
solutions.
c. Third, to help more enterprises enter new markets, we will enhance the Market
Readiness Assistance grant by expanding the funding support and coverage, to
include, for example, FTA consultancy. [See Annex B-1].

Transforming Further
B27.

We must continue to support the growth of our enterprises, and as they mature, drive
deeper transformation.
a. Today, through the Enterprise Development Grant, or EDG, Enterprise Singapore
provides integrated support for enterprises to innovate and internationalise.
b. For enterprises to transform, they need to strengthen their leadership and
management capabilities.

B28.

This year, we will introduce an Enterprise Transform Package, with a focus on
leadership.
a. Enterprise Singapore will launch the Enterprise Leadership for Transformation
Programme, to support business leaders of promising small and medium
enterprises in achieving the next bound of growth.
i.

Over the next three years, we aim to support business leaders of 900
enterprises in business transformation, with training and mentorship.

ii.

We will work with Institutes of Higher Learning or IHLs, banks, and industry
experts, and facilitate collaboration.

b. In tandem, we will continue to broaden transformation through the EDG, by
expanding its reach. In FY2020, we expect to support about 3,000 projects through
the EDG, an increase of more than 10% from the number today.

Developing Our People
B29.

The third thrust of our Transformation and Growth effort is to develop our people,
so as to enable our people to access good jobs, earn good wages, and stay employable.

B30.

Economic growth is a means to a better life for our people. We must nurture every
Singaporean to their fullest potential.

B31.

The Government's promise to Singaporeans is this: regardless of your starting point,
as long as you are willing to learn, we will support you to learn throughout life – in
pre-employment, in your working years, and as we pursue lifelong learning and
employability.

B32.

We will bring in different partners, including IHLs, enterprises, and the labour
movement, to help you do so.

Pre-Employment Training – Tertiary Education
B33.

Let me begin with the role of our IHLs.

B34.

Our IHLs provide a strong foundation in learning, and have partnerships with industry.
IHLs and the industry have distinct roles, and by aligning these to keep learning
relevant, students can secure good jobs.
a. Employment rates are high, and starting salaries have increased.
b. We develop Singaporean talent in partnership with enterprises under the
Singapore-Industry Scholarship scheme. Many of them have graduated and are
developing their careers with leading enterprises like ST Engineering and Micron.

B35.

Our local students are well-prepared to thrive in other countries and cultures,
including in Asia.
a. About half of all local IHL students today gain experience abroad, through
programmes such as internships, exchanges, and service learning or study trips.

B36.

In my pre-Budget dialogue with youth leaders, I was struck by their understanding of
the importance of learning new skills and exploring new opportunities. They look
forward to overseas exposure and postings in the region.

B37.

To support our local students to acquire cross-cultural skills and understand our region
better, we will set ourselves a “70-70” target – 70% of local IHL graduates to have an
overseas experience, and 70% of this group to have exposure to ASEAN, China, or
India:

a. To achieve this target, we will introduce a new Asia-Ready Exposure Programme
to support local youths’ visits to cities in ASEAN, China, or India. We will also
enhance support for internships under the Global Ready Talent Programme.
Working Years – SkillsFuture
B38.

Beyond pre-employment education, we must also support our people who are already
at work.
a. With shorter technology cycles and more intense global competition, skills
acquired when we are young need to be constantly refreshed.
b. Career transitions will be more common, even the norm.

B39.

Our SkillsFuture movement seeks to enable our people to learn, develop new skills,
and stay employable.
a. Five years after the launch of SkillsFuture, we have made good progress.
i.

The training participation rate has risen, from 35% in 2015, to 49% in 2019.

ii.

As of end 2019, the SkillsFuture Credit has helped more than half a million
Singaporeans pick up new skills and develop new interests.

iii. This includes Mr Koh Wui-Tek, a FinTech executive who applied his learning in
project management to serving his clients, as well as Madam Juriah Jahaya, a
certified trainer who deepened her people development skills.
b. Singaporeans are also upskilling and accessing good jobs in growth sectors, with
the support of employers.
i.

Younger Singaporeans are undergoing on-the-job training while getting a
qualification.

ii.

Singaporeans who have been working for some time have adapted and grown
their skills.

iii. One good example is Ms Nur Hidayah Binte Abu Bakar, whom I met at WSG
last year. After leaving the electronics industry, Ms Hidayah joined AETOS
Holdings as an Auxiliary Police Officer. She went through the tough training as
part of the Professional Conversion Programme. Today, she not only earns
more, and has a clearer career pathway, but she is also helping to keep
Singapore safe. [See Annex B-4.]
B40.

I am very encouraged by the efforts made by Singaporeans to acquire new skills, in
the midst of the major structural changes in the global economy. To further support

them in this journey, the Government will invest in the Next Bound of SkillsFuture.
There will be three elements in this:
a. First, enabling the individual;
b. Second, enhancing the role of our enterprises; and
c. Third, a special focus on mid-career workers.
B41.

First, to support Singaporeans to continue learning, I will provide a one-off
SkillsFuture Credit top-up of $500 for every Singaporean aged 25 years and above6.
a. The top-up will be available for use from 1st October 2020.
b. Unlike the earlier $500 credit which had no expiry date, this top-up will expire in
about five years, by end-2025. This is to encourage Singaporeans to take action
early to learn new skills, and to make the best use of this period of economic
slowdown. [See Annex B-2.]

B42.

Second, we want to enhance the role of enterprises in developing their staff.
a. Enterprises know best the skills needed for their business to transform, and can
play a key role in helping their workers learn and apply new skills. By investing in
their staff, they build a stronger workforce, which can in turn help enterprises
succeed. So, we must strive to achieve this virtuous cycle.
b. A good example is Containers Printers, a local food packaging company. It has
adopted digital technology and trained its workers to take on higher value-added
roles like real-time monitoring of production.
c. In our unique tripartite model, the labour movement plays a crucial role. We
cannot keep jobs, enterprises, or even industries that are no longer viable. Instead,
we refresh, retrain, and rejuvenate for the long term.
i.

B43.

6

For example, the United Workers of Electronics and Electrical Industries, and
Thales, a French technology leader, have set up a Company Training
Committee. Management staff and union members are working together to
develop training plans and deepen skills, so that workers can take on better
jobs. On my visit to Thales, I was very heartened to hear how its employees
are upskilling and contributing to Thales’ transformation. This is a good
example of how unions and enterprises can work together to keep workers up
to date as enterprises transform. [See Annex B-4.]

Let me outline five measures to enhance the role of our enterprises in the Next Bound
of SkillsFuture.

As at 31 December 2020.

a. First, I will introduce a new SkillsFuture Enterprise Credit to encourage employers
to embark on the transformation of their workforce and enterprise in tandem.
Employers can use this enterprise credit to defray 90% of out-of-pocket costs of
business transformation, job redesign, and skills training. The SkillsFuture
Enterprise Credit, at $10,000 per enterprise, will benefit over 35,000 enterprises,
most of which will be SMEs.
b. Second, we will also provide more support for job redesign. The Productivity
Solutions Grant supports enterprises to adopt pre-approved digital solutions and
equipment. We will expand the Productivity Solutions Grant to include job
redesign consultancy services.
c. Third, we will work with large anchor enterprises to support training for their
sectors and value chain partners. Anchor enterprises are supported by many
SMEs. By helping to raise the skills of workers in these SMEs, the entire supply
chain benefits. We aim to partner up to 40 of such anchor enterprises to benefit
4,000 SMEs over the next five years.
d. Fourth, our IHLs will work with more enterprises to enable local students to learn
in a real work setting, through SkillsFuture Work-Study Programmes. We will now
more than double the capacity of these programmes by 2025. Our aim is to make
this a mainstream pathway, with 12% of each cohort going through these
pathways, up from 3.5% today.
e. Fifth, as more enterprises train their workers, we will deepen workplace learning
capabilities. MOE launched the National Centre of Excellence for Workplace
Learning, or NACE, at Nanyang Polytechnic in July 2018. MOE will expand NACE to
two more IHLs over the next few years, and aim to benefit over 1,200 enterprises,
especially our SMEs.
B44.

In line with our focus on the role of industry in SkillsFuture, we will also recalibrate
Government funding towards training providers and courses with a stronger link to
job and wage outcomes.

Working Years – SkillsFuture Mid-Career Support Package
B45.

The third element in the Next Bound of SkillsFuture is a special focus on mid-career
workers currently in their 40s and 50s.
a. Born in the 1960s and 70s, they grew up in a time when our economy was just
starting to take off.
b. When they started work, it was normal, even celebrated, to stay with one job, in
one company, for life.

c. As enterprises restructure, the nature of jobs has changed. Many have adapted to
these changes, picked up new skills, and even switched careers.
d. Ms Ng Lee Chun, 50, is one of them. After leaving her previous job, WSG helped
her to secure a logistics role with ST Logistics. Through the Professional Conversion
Programme for Supply Chain Professionals, ST Logistics sent her for training for
this role.
e. Some workers in their 40s and 50s have not seen any job or career changes since
leaving school, or had the chance to upskill earlier. But they are now facing greater
competition, from younger workers and workers overseas. I understand their
anxiety.
f. At the same time, with broader global shifts, exciting jobs will emerge. Our midcareer workers can seize these opportunities and do better for themselves and
their families. The Government will do more to support them.
B46.

We will introduce a new SkillsFuture Mid-Career Support Package for locals in their
40s and 50s, to help them stay employable and move on to new jobs or new roles. We
aim to double the annual job placement of locals in their 40s and 50s, to around 5,500,
by the year 2025. To reach this goal:
a. We will increase the capacity of reskilling programmes. These will include the
Professional Conversion Programme under the Adapt and Grow initiative, career
transition programmes delivered by Continuing Education and Training Centres, or
CET Centres, like IHLs, and sector-specific programmes like the TechSkills
Accelerator Company-Led Training for ICT jobs.
b. In tandem, our employers must step up to recruit, retain and retrain our local
mid-career workers. We will support them to do so.
i.

I will provide a hiring incentive to employers who hire local jobseekers aged
40 and above through a reskilling programme. For each eligible worker, the
Government will provide 20% salary support to the employer for six months,
capped at $6,000 in total.

ii.

In parallel, we will streamline our manpower schemes, including support for
hiring and retention, to maximise their impact.

c. To improve access to reskilling programmes, I will also provide a special
SkillsFuture Credit top-up of $500 to every Singaporean aged 40 to 60 in 2020.
This will be over and above the top-up that I announced earlier.
i.

This additional credit can be used for selected reskilling programmes at CET
Centres.

ii.

Like the broad-based top-up, this additional credit will expire in about five
years, to encourage early action.

d. Apart from Government support, we will assemble a group of volunteer Career
Advisors from professional communities. These advisors will provide peer-level
support and career guidance to local workers in navigating professional pathways.
e. We hope that all these initiatives will provide meaningful support to those in their
40s and 50s, to further their careers with confidence.
Supporting Lifelong Learning and Employability
B47.

Lifelong learning and contribution does not stop at the 40s and 50s.
a. As the Chinese say, “活到老，学到老”. You are never too old to learn.

B48.

As our people live longer, we will provide more support to help them remain active,
and contribute to our society and economy.
a. Many seniors have told us that they want to continue working, and learning.
Besides saving more for retirement, it is about a sense of agency and purpose, and
staying active and connected.
b. The Government has strongly supported enterprises that employ our seniors,
i.

Through the Special Employment Credit or SEC, and the Additional SEC or
ASEC, and WorkPro.

c. For our seniors who wish to work longer, earn more, and save more, PM had
announced at last year’s National Day Rally that we are raising the Retirement and
Re-employment Ages. We are also increasing CPF contribution rates for workers
aged 55 to 70.
B49.

To ease in these changes for employers and workers, I will introduce a Senior Worker
Support Package comprising four measures.
a. First, I will refashion SEC and ASEC into a Senior Employment Credit, which will
take effect from 2021. Like SEC and ASEC, this Senior Employment Credit will
provide employers with wage offsets when they hire Singaporean workers aged
55 and above, with the support levels tapering down over time as the Retirement
and Re-employment Ages are gradually raised.
b. Second, when employer CPF contribution rates go up in 2021, we will provide
employers with a CPF Transition Offset for the year, to offset half of the increase
in employer contributions.

c. Third, we will introduce the Senior Worker Early Adopter Grant to support
enterprises that raise their own Retirement and Re-employment ages ahead of the
legislated changes.
d. Fourth, we will introduce the Part-Time Re-employment Grant to support and
encourage enterprises to formalise part-time re-employment provisions. [See
Annex B-3.]
e. In short, even as we support workers’ aspirations to work longer, we hear
employers’ concerns. As part of our unique tripartite system, the Government has
stepped up to support both our workers and our enterprises.
B50.

Even for seniors who choose to retire, but wish to continue to learn and stay active,
the $500 SkillsFuture Credit top-up that I just announced will support this. Retirees
can use this to deepen their interests, or even explore a whole new area – be it cooking
or coding.

Foreign Worker Policy
B51.

For many years now, foreign workers have been part of our workforce. With our
declining local labour force growth, foreign workers are a necessary complement. But
we must regulate the inflow carefully, in a way that creates opportunities for our
locals.

B52.

One area of particular concern is S Passes. These are skilled jobs, many of which can
be done by locals, such as polytechnic diploma holders. We created the S Pass
category because despite our best efforts, we are not producing enough of such skilled
locals. S Passes enable enterprises to top up their workforce with more skilled
workers, and to recruit workers with particular skills that locals may lack. But S Passes
should not be a means by which enterprises hire low-cost foreign workers, when
qualified locals are available.

B53.

Last year, we announced cuts for the Dependency Ratio Ceiling, or DRC, and S Pass
sub-DRC thresholds for the Services sector. This was to manage manpower growth,
and encourage our enterprises to restructure and reskill our local workers.

B54.

We have been monitoring the manpower growth closely.
a. The number of S Pass holders in the Construction, Manufacturing, Marine
Shipyard, and Process sectors is growing, by 3.8% per year over the last two years.
The number could increase significantly over the next few years, as the
Construction and Marine Shipyard sectors recover, and the Process sector begins
work on projects in the pipeline.

B55.

However, the growth in S Pass holders must be sustainable. The Government has been
working closely with industry and educational institutions to build up a pipeline of

local manpower, including mid-career workers. We want them to have fair
opportunities to grow, while supporting the manpower needs of enterprises.
B56.

Therefore, this year, we will take further steps. We will reduce the S Pass sub-DRCs of
the Construction, Marine Shipyard, and Process sectors from 20% to 15%.
a. We will phase in the cuts in two steps. The first step from 20% to 18% on
1st January 2021, and subsequently to 15% on 1st January 2023.
b. We are announcing the changes about a year ahead, to give time for enterprises
to adapt.

B57.

Given the economic uncertainties, we will not reduce the S-Pass sub-DRC for the
Manufacturing sector at this point. But we do want manufacturing companies to make
the effort to recruit local skilled workers and technicians too. Therefore, when
conditions allow, we intend to tighten the S Pass sub-DRC for Manufacturing too.

B58.

At the same time, we recognise potential concerns of enterprises about the availability
of skilled manpower in these sectors.
a. To help you find skilled local graduates looking to embark on their careers, and
older local professionals looking for new careers, SSG and WSG will work with you
to improve matching.
b. Enterprises that have specific needs can continue to apply for additional
manpower flexibilities in exceptional cases, through schemes such as the Lean
Enterprise Development Scheme.

B59.

In view of the economic conditions, I will maintain the foreign worker levy rates for
all sectors for 2020. [See Annex B-2.]

Summary
B60.

Mr Speaker Sir, the Government appreciates the concerns of our workers and
enterprises. In the immediate term, we are facing headwinds with the shocks and
uncertainties. But in the medium term, we are facing deep structural shifts in the
global economy. We have to tackle both challenges head-on.

B61.

The Government will support our enterprises and workers with the near-term
challenges, through the Stabilisation and Support Package for workers and
enterprises.

B62.

To tackle medium-term challenges, our Transformation and Growth strategy will
support efforts to deepen enterprise capabilities, develop our people, and forge
stronger partnerships, through our tripartite structure.

B63.

By positioning Singapore as a Global-Asia node of technology, innovation, and
enterprise, we can ride on the next wave of structural changes resolutely.

B64.

The respective Ministers will provide more details of the schemes I have mentioned
in this section later.

C.

CARING FOR SINGAPOREANS, BUILDING AN INCLUSIVE HOME

C1.

Mr Speaker, Sir, a vibrant economy provides good jobs and opportunities for
Singaporeans, and allows families to do well.

C2.

It also gives us the resources to support our people with their needs, to build a caring
and inclusive home.

C3.

Our tax and spending policies reflect our values.
a. Over the past decade, we have significantly increased our social spending.
b. Between 2010 and 2019:
i.

We tripled our healthcare expenditure from $4 billion to about $12 billion a
year, to meet the growing needs of our seniors and to ensure that every
Singaporean has access to affordable and quality healthcare.

ii.

We increased our investments in education, from $10 billion to about $13
billion, so that all Singaporeans will have the best chance to fulfil their fullest
potential.

iii. We increased the expenditure on national development from $2.4 billion to
$3.6 billion, with the bulk of this going into subsidies on public housing, so
that every Singaporean household can have a home to call their own.
c.

Last year, we gave out about $1.1 billion in cash to Singaporeans who need more
help. The payouts were provided through structural schemes such as ComCare for
the vulnerable, Workfare Income Supplement for lower-wage workers, GST
Voucher – Cash for lower-income Singaporeans, and Silver Support for the
vulnerable elderly.

C4.

This social spending reflects our commitment to invest in our people, to give every
citizen a stake in our society, to care for our seniors, and to provide more help to those
with less.

C5.

This Budget, we will continue to care for Singaporeans in the following ways:
a. First, we will build on our efforts to support our families.
b. Second, we will support and enable our seniors in their retirement years.
c. Third, we will promote a stronger giving culture.

Supporting Families
C6.

I will first touch on how we will further support our families.

Pre-school Years
C7.

Good education provides a strong foundation for children to grow, realise their
aspirations, and continue a journey of lifelong learning. We have committed to
decisive shifts in the Government’s support for early childhood development. We are
determined to give every child, regardless of circumstances, a good start in life.
a. As PM announced at the National Day Rally last year, we will step up efforts to
improve the affordability, accessibility, and quality of pre-school services.
b. We have significantly enhanced pre-school subsidies and made them available to
more families from this year.
c. We will also increase the share of government-supported pre-school places from
just over 50% today, to 80% by around 2025.
d. Overall, we are doubling our support for our young in their pre-school years.
i.

In 2018, the Government spent about $1 billion on the early childhood sector.

ii.

Within the next few years, this will double to over $2 billion per year.

Primary to Pre-University School Years
C8.

In the primary to pre-university school years, education is already heavily subsidised
for Singaporeans. Primary school is free for all Singaporeans, while the secondary
school fee is $5 a month. Students pay only a few dollars of miscellaneous fees.

C9.

For students from lower-income families, we will provide further help.
a. We will enhance the MOE Financial Assistance Scheme by raising the annual
bursary quantum for pre-university students, from $900 to $1,000.
i.

C10.

We will also increase transport subsidies for all students, and school meals
subsidies for secondary school students.

The enhanced Financial Assistance Scheme will cost an additional $9 million per year,
or a total of $52 million per year.

Higher Education Years
C11.

We announced that we would enhance bursaries for diploma and degree holders last
year. These bursaries are on top of subsidies that are provided to all Singaporeans.

a. Starting from Academic Year 2020, students from lower- and middle-income
families in the polytechnics and autonomous universities can benefit from higher
bursaries.
b. We will also enhance bursaries for full-time ITE students from Academic Year
2020. Students from households who qualify under the lowest income tier for the
bursaries will now receive 100% fee subsidy on top of the cash bursary. Students
from low- and middle-income households will also benefit from an increase in the
cash bursary quantum by up to $200 a year.
C12.

The cost of bursaries for higher education will rise from $148 million per year to
$198 million per year.

Overall Education Benefits
C13.

A good education lays a strong foundation for a better future. This is why this
Government has been providing significant education subsidies for each child.

C14.

A Singaporean child will receive over $180,000 of education subsidies in total by the
time he turns 16. This includes about $50,000 in Government subsidies over five years
when they enrol in a full-day childcare programme with one of the Anchor Operators.

C15.

For those who come from less-privileged backgrounds, there are additional subsidies
for pre-school, bursaries, and other financial assistance schemes.

C16.

This substantial investment is how we maximise every child’s potential, regardless of
family circumstances.
a. This is a promise that I, as a former Education Minister and now Finance Minister,
am committed to keep.

Housing Affordability
C17.

When Singaporeans are ready to start a family and own a home, we make sure that
there is good access to quality and affordable housing.
a. Last year, MND consolidated existing housing grants into the Enhanced CPF
Housing Grant.
i.

With the Enhanced Housing Grant, first-time flat buyers can now enjoy up to
$160,000 in housing grants.

ii.

The monthly household income ceilings for subsidised flats and executive
condominiums were raised to $14,000 and $16,000 respectively. We expect
around 16,000 HDB households to benefit from these enhancements each
year.

Care and Support Package for Households
C18.

The Government has made significant moves to help Singaporeans manage major
expenditures in life, through structural subsidies in education, housing, and
healthcare.

C19.

This year, with the economic slowdown and the uncertainties of the COVID-19
outbreak, we are mindful that many families are facing greater pressures. During my
fellow MPs’ and my own walkabouts, people often tell us that they are worried about
job security and rising expenditures.

C20.

To help all Singaporeans with their household expenses during this period of
uncertainty, I will provide a comprehensive Care and Support Package for households,
amounting to about $1.6 billion.
a. All Singaporeans aged 21 and above in 2020 will receive a one-off cash payout of
$300, $200 or $100, depending on their income.
b. The annual GST Voucher – U-Save provides rebates to help HDB households with
their utilities expenses. This year, I will double the amount of U-Save rebates
through a one-off GST Voucher – U-Save Special Payment to all eligible HDB
households. This will help to free up cash for other household expenses.
c. In addition, I will extend the Service and Conservancy Charges Rebate by another
year. Eligible HDB households will receive rebates of between one and a half, and
three and a half months.
d. Lower-income Singaporeans will get additional help with their daily living
expenses.
i.

In October 2019, we announced the Workfare Transport Concession Scheme
and the Public Transport Voucher to help cushion the transport fare increase
for lower-income households.

ii.

To further offset daily living expenses for lower-income workers, I will provide
a Workfare Special Payment. Singaporeans on Workfare will receive 20%
more for work done in 2019, with a minimum payment of $100. This will be
given in cash.

iii. I will also help needy Singaporeans more directly. They will receive Grocery
Vouchers worth $100 each year in 2020 and 2021, for use at major
supermarkets. This directly helps needy households with one of their major
cost of living items – food.
e. There will be additional help for families taking care of children and elderly
parents.

i.

I will provide a further $100 cash payout for every adult Singaporean with at
least one Singaporean child aged 20 years and below this year.

ii.

I will provide an additional GST Voucher – U-Save rebate for larger households
with five or more members, to help them with their utilities bills. Together
with the U-Save Special Payment I mentioned earlier, larger households can
receive a total of 2.5 times their regular U-Save rebates this year. These
households can receive up to $1,000 in U-Save rebates, depending on their
flat type.

iii. I will also provide a $100 top-up to the PAssion Card to all Singaporeans aged
50 years and above this year, including the Pioneer Generation and Merdeka
Generation seniors. This can be used to pay for groceries, activities and
facilities at Community Clubs, and more. Those who do not currently have a
PAssion Card can get one for free to receive the top-up.
f. Our Self-Help Groups have also been working closely with the community to help
needy families and children. To enable them to do more, I will provide a
$10 million grant to them over two years so that they can help more families.
g. The Community Development Councils or CDCs have also played an important role
in partnering the community to strengthen bonds and help vulnerable groups.

C21.

i.

Each CDC has its set of local assistance schemes to meet local needs, and
programmes that allow community members to help those with extra needs.

ii.

I will provide $20 million for the CDCs to do more, and better meet the needs
of their residents through local initiatives.

Together, the Care and Support Package will provide a young family with about
$1,300. A 3-Generation family can receive more – about $1,800. More details are
provided on the slide and in the Annex. [See Annex C-1.]

Enabling Seniors
C22.

Let me now move on to the second area, which is to support and enable our seniors.

C23.

Singaporeans are living longer. Our life expectancy at birth is close to 85 years, the
longest in the world. This is a good thing!

C24.

Singapore will not just be a great place to raise a family, but a great place for seniors
to live a life of purpose, dignity, and contribution.
a. The Community Networks for Seniors is now a national programme, with 650
active ageing nodes to engage our seniors.

C25.

We must see ageing as a positive force, and turn this phase of life into a time of
opportunity.

C26.

Ageing with confidence includes having financial assurance in retirement.
a. This can be achieved through a combination of individual effort, family,
community, and Government support.
b. Over the years, we have strengthened the four pillars of our social security system
– home ownership, CPF, healthcare assurance, and income from Workfare and
Silver Support. We have also been enhancing the ComCare schemes, which
support Singaporeans who are unable to work and have little or no family support.

C27.

The CPF is a major scheme to enable Singaporeans to save enough for their retirement
years. We need to keep on updating and improving our CPF policies over time, so that
they remain appropriate for each cohort.
a. We have been adjusting the Basic Retirement Sum, or BRS, regularly, in line with
rising income levels. Since 2017, household incomes per capita have risen by an
average of 4.1% per year (in nominal terms), while the BRS has increased by
3% per year. The BRS is currently $90,500 for the cohort turning 55 this year.
b. We will continue to adjust the BRS by the same 3% per year for the next two
cohorts. The BRS will be $93,000 for cohorts turning 55 in 2021, and $96,000 for
those turning 55 in 2022. These modest continuing adjustments are necessary for
the payouts to keep up with basic retirement expenses.
c. With continuing wage growth, each successive cohort has been able to save more.
We expect 7 in 10 actively employed persons from these two cohorts to be able to
set aside their BRS, significantly more than the 4 in 10 about a decade ago.
d. More details are in the Annex. [See Annex C-2.]

C28.

Even as more seniors are prepared for retirement, one group of current seniors may
not be able to meet their retirement needs.
a. When they were younger, they earned less than working Singaporeans do today,
even after adjusting for inflation.
b. Some may have earned lower wages for most of their working lives.
c. Others may have stopped working early to take care of family members.
d. We are in a fortunate position that most of our seniors have housing assets that
they can use to support their retirement, if they wish.

C29.

We will do more to help Singaporeans tap their housing assets for retirement by
enhancing the Silver Housing Bonus and the Lease Buyback Scheme.
a. The Minister for National Development will provide more details.

C30.

The CPF is a good retirement scheme, based on personal savings. It provides
Singaporeans with very favourable, risk-free interest rates on their savings. Many
Singaporeans want to top up their own, their spouse’s, or parents’ CPF accounts. In
2019, such voluntary cash top-ups added up to about $1 billion. We would like to
encourage more to do so, particularly those whose CPF balances are on the low side.

C31.

To help those with less CPF savings to save more, I will introduce a Matched
Retirement Savings Scheme from 2021 to 2025.
a. Lower- to middle-income Singaporeans aged 55 to 70 who have not been able to
set aside the prevailing BRS will be eligible.
b. Under this scheme, the Government will match every dollar of cash top-up made
to their CPF Retirement Account, up to an annual cap of $600. This is a way of
encouraging and augmenting family support for our seniors with fewer means in
retirement. About 435,000 Singaporeans will be eligible.

C32.

While the CPF is a good scheme, for a small segment of the elderly population, it will
not be enough. Some had low incomes during their working years, and currently have
little or no family support. We created the Silver Support Scheme to complement the
CPF for this group, and give them more financial security in retirement. The scheme is
now almost five years old and a review is timely.

C33.

Silver Support currently provides cash payouts to the bottom 20% of Singaporeans
aged 65 and above, with some support for those slightly above the bottom 20%.
a. I will raise the quarterly cash payouts by 20%. For individuals living in smaller flats,
this means that the cash payouts will increase from $750 to $900 per quarter.
b. I will also broaden the eligibility criteria of Silver Support. I will expand the
threshold for lifetime wages and per capita household income to cover more
seniors. There will also be a new payout tier to provide a smaller payout to seniors
whose monthly household incomes per person are above $1,300 but not
exceeding $1,800 – these seniors do not receive Silver Support today.
c. There is no need to apply – eligible seniors will be notified by CPF Board and start
receiving payouts under the enhanced scheme from December 2020.

C34.

Overall, we expect about 100,000 more seniors to benefit from the enhanced Silver
Support in 2021. The cost of Silver Support will nearly double, from today’s $330
million, to around $620 million in 2021.

a. More details are provided in the Annex. [See Annex C-3.]
C35.

Here is an illustration of how the matched savings, right-sizing, and enhanced Silver
Support can add up to help a retired 65-year old couple to more than double their
retirement income.
a. I will pause here for members to take a look at the example. More details are
provided in the Annex. [See Annex C-4.]

C36.

These enhancements underscore the Government’s commitment to provide seniors
with greater assurance in retirement, and reflect the values we hold dear, such as
taking care of our parents and seniors. They will also complement the other schemes
for our seniors, such as the Pioneer Generation Package and Merdeka Generation
Package.

C37.

We will also help seniors stay active and contribute to the community.

C38.

Many senior volunteers find that volunteering gives them purpose, keeps them
socially connected, and promotes active ageing. The community also benefits from
their wealth of experience and skills.
a. There is Mr Victor Lim, a 70-year-old retiree, who spent 40 years in the Medical
Imaging and IT industry, and now volunteers at IMDA’s Digital Readiness
programmes. There is also Mdm Leong Su Yin, one of the oldest members of RSVP,
who has been volunteering for over 20 years.

Strengthening the Giving Culture
C39.

Our success in taking care of every Singaporean, from pre-school to retirement, is only
possible with the support of our community partners.

C40.

This brings me to the third strategy, Strengthening the Giving Culture.
a. When we harness and rally greater participation and resources from the
community, we can better support those in need.

C41.

The Government will continue to support the community in building a stronger giving
culture.
a. Last year, I announced the Bicentennial Community Fund, which provides
dollar-for-dollar matching for donations made to Institutions of a Public Character.
This is on top of the 250% tax deduction provided for donations made to IPCs.
b. One of the potential beneficiaries is the Daughters Of Tomorrow Limited, which
helps disadvantaged women gain new skills and find employment. The
organisation plans to use the Bicentennial Community Fund to develop staff and
volunteers, and build their in-house fundraising capabilities.

a. This year, the Ministry of Social and Family Development and National Council of
Social Service will set up the Community Capability Trust to fundraise and support
our social service sector partners in enhancing their capabilities and capacities to
serve the community.
i.

For a start, together with Tote Board, we will provide $200 million to the trust
in FY2020, and match up to $150 million in funds raised over the next 10 years.
In total, we will commit up to $350 million for the Community Capability Trust.

ii.

This will provide a pool of funds that our Social Service Agencies can tap on to
transform themselves for the future. I hope they will make good use of this to
strengthen their organisational capabilities, become more productive, and
enhance their service infrastructure, in partnership with MSF and NCSS.

iii. Just like how our efforts in the Industry Transformation Maps have positioned
our enterprises and economy for the future, the Community Capability Trust
will equip Social Service Agencies to bring the social sector forward.
iv. More details are provided in the Annex. [See Annex C-5].
C42.

There is much value to be gained when a community comes together in support of a
cause.
a. I am happy to see the success of the movements like The Purple Parade, The
Purple Symphony, and Runninghour. These are ground-up initiatives that support
inclusion and celebrate the abilities of persons with special needs, through
activities like music and sport.

C43.

Everyone can play a part to build an inclusive society from their hearts, in ways big
and small.

C44.

Many enterprises have also built inclusive workspaces for persons with disabilities, or
PwDs.

C45.

To support the employment of PwDs, the SEC and the ASEC schemes provide wage
offsets for employers hiring Singaporean PwDs earning below $4,000 per month. At
the last Budget, we extended the SEC and ASEC until end of 2020.
a. We have received good feedback on the schemes in supporting PwD employment.
b. In 2018, more than 5,700 employers hiring over 8,600 Singaporean PwDs
benefited from SEC.

C46.

This Budget, we will introduce the new Enabling Employment Credit, or EEC, to
provide stronger support for employers of PwDs.

a. The new EEC will replace the current SEC and ASEC schemes for PwD employment.
b. It will be available for five years, from 2021 to 2025, at a cost of about
$31 million per year. To ensure that the EEC remains helpful for PwDs to find
employment and remain in the workforce, the Government will review the EEC
after two years and make adjustments if necessary.
C47.

This Budget, I will also top up three funds that provide targeted help for the elderly
and the lower-income.
a. I will provide top-ups of $750 million to the ElderCare Fund, $500 million to the
ComCare Fund, and $200 million to the MediFund.
b. These funds provide a safety net for the low-income, by helping them to meet their
daily expenses and healthcare fees.

Summary
C48.

The respective Ministers will provide more details of the schemes I have mentioned
in this section later.

C49.

Mr Speaker Sir, Budget 2020 supports the Government’s long-term strategy of
building a caring and inclusive society.
a. We will continue to support our families, through the enhancements to our
education and housing schemes, and the Care and Support Package for
households.
b. We will enable our seniors by promoting active ageing and providing financial
assurance in their retirement years.
c. We will also partner the community to build a stronger giving culture, so we can
better support those in need.
d. This is our continued effort to improve the lives of our people and our future
generations. We must continue to work together to build a society where
opportunities are available to every Singaporean, at every stage of life.

D.

SUSTAINING SINGAPORE’S SUCCESS FOR OUR FUTURE GENERATIONS

D1.

Let me move on to how we can sustain Singapore’s success for generations to come.

D2.

Our pioneers set out to build a high quality living environment, even when they had
to attend to pressing economic and security challenges. They left us a legacy of a clean,
green, and liveable environment.

D3.

As the Chinese saying goes, “前人种树，后人乘凉”. The generation that planted the
seeds does not fully benefit from their toil, but they care to do this, for future
generations to reap the fruits.
a. In the same spirit, we must plant the seeds to secure a better future for
generations to come.

D4.

By thinking long-term, by confronting major challenges, and by investing for our
future, we have beaten the odds. Three major challenges we must continue to
confront are: climate change, security, and fiscal sustainability.

Addressing Climate Change
D5.

To build a liveable and sustainable home, we must address climate change. As a
low-lying island nation, rising sea levels threatens our very existence.

D6.

So what can we do as a small island nation?

Supporting International Effort to Fight Climate Change
D7.

First, we must continue to support global efforts to combat global problems.
Singapore must continue to do our part as a responsible member of the international
community. Singapore plays an active role at the UN Framework Convention on
Climate Change. Besides representing our interests, Team Singapore is regarded as an
honest broker, helping to build bridges and consensus.

D8.

This year, we will update our commitment to the Paris Agreement and take a further
step to chart our vision for a low-carbon, sustainable future Singapore.
a. The Minister in the Prime Minister’s Office will elaborate on this later.

Managing our Carbon Constraints
D9.

Second, we must manage our transition to a low-carbon, low-emissions economy.
a. We must turn our carbon constraints into a strength, just like how we have turned
our water vulnerabilities into an area of strength, with radical innovations in

NEWater and desalination. Today, Singapore is a global hub of water research and
innovation.
D10.

The circular economy – turning waste into a resource that can be reused in the
production cycle – is one way we can reduce our carbon footprint, and open up new
opportunities.
a. NEA will soon begin a field trial to use NEWSand, made from incineration ash, in
road construction along Tanah Merah Coast Road.

D11.

We will do more to develop new ideas and solutions. We are committing close to
$1 billion for research in Urban Solutions and Sustainability. The research will focus on
renewable energy, cooling Singapore, and carbon capture, among others.
a. As climate change is global, innovative solutions created here can be
commercialised, turning our constraints into a strength.

D12.

More broadly, we have to manage our greenhouse gas emissions, by putting in place
the right incentives, tax structures, and regulations.
a. We introduced a carbon tax in 2019, and supported enterprises in improving
energy efficiency.
b. We introduced and enhanced the Minimum Energy Performance Standards to
raise the energy efficiency of energy-intensive household and industrial
appliances.

D13.

The domestic transport sector contributes a significant amount of greenhouse gas
emissions. Vehicles with internal combustion engines, or ICEs, also contribute to
pollution, adversely affecting our health and quality of life.
a. Many major cities have already set ambitious goals to phase out ICE vehicles and
shift to cleaner technologies.
b. Car manufacturers are actively developing cleaner engine technologies such as
hybrids and electric vehicles, or EVs, and are exploring new areas such as hydrogen
fuel cells.

D14.

As a small city-state, we are able to, and have strong reason to stay abreast of these
major technological changes.
a. For both public health and climate change reasons, we should progressively phase
out the use of ICE vehicles towards cleaner alternatives, such as hybrids and EVs.
We will set a long-term strategic goal for Singapore to achieve this.

D15.

Our vision is to phase out ICE vehicles and have all vehicles run on cleaner energy by
2040. To promote this, we will have three measures in this Budget.

D16.

First, we will enhance incentives to encourage the adoption of cleaner and more
environmentally friendly vehicles.
a. In 2018, we introduced the Vehicular Emissions Scheme for cars and taxis. Under
the scheme, car buyers and taxi operators who choose cleaner car models can
receive an upfront rebate of up to $20,000 and $30,000 respectively.
b. We have seen promising results from the scheme. More car buyers and taxi
operators are choosing environmentally friendly engines such as electric hybrids.
c. Therefore, we will introduce a similar scheme called the Commercial Vehicle
Emissions Scheme for light goods vehicles. The Minister for the Environment and
Water Resources will announce the details at the COS.
d. For cars and taxis, I will provide an EV Early Adoption Incentive.
i.
ii.

Those who purchase fully electric cars and taxis will receive a rebate of up to
45% on the Additional Registration Fee, capped at $20,000.
This incentive will be implemented for three years, from January 2021.

e. We will also revise the road tax methodology for cars to better reflect the current
trends in vehicle efficiency from January 2021. This will lead to an across-the-board
reduction in road tax for EVs and some hybrids. [See Annex D-1].
D17.

Second, we will expand the public charging infrastructure for EVs.
a. Today, there are about 1,600 charging points island-wide.
b. We will work with the private sector to step up the deployment of chargers in
public carparks. By 2030, we aim to deploy up to 28,000 chargers at our public
carparks island-wide.

D18.

Lastly, the Government will take the lead. We will progressively procure and use
cleaner vehicles to do our part for the environment.

D19.

Here we are placing a significant bet on EVs, and leaning policy in that direction
because it is the most promising technology. It also requires a significant increase in
demand to justify the infrastructure investment. This is a significant undertaking
involving multiple agencies.

A Resilient Vehicular Tax Structure
D20.

The transition towards EVs will have a major impact on tax revenues.

D21.

Fuel excise duties today yield around $1 billion per year, and are significant
contributors to government revenues. They are also a form of mileage tax, which

discourages excessive driving, especially in private cars, and thus helps to reduce road
congestion.
D22.

But EVs do not pay fuel excise duties. Therefore, we will need to update our vehicular
tax structure to preserve these two considerations.
a. Ideally, we would like to implement a usage-based tax on EVs as an alternative to
fuel excise duties.
b. But the technology to do this properly on EVs is the Next Generation ERP System,
and distance-based charging using ERP is still several years away.
c. In the interim, we will impose a lump-sum tax that will be built into the road tax
schedule for EVs to partly account for the loss in fuel excise duties.
d. This lump-sum tax will be phased in over three years starting from January 2021,
with the full quantum implemented by January 2023. [See Annex D-1].
e. Total road tax, after the revision in methodology and the new lump-sum tax, will
be higher for some EV models.

D23.

However, EV buyers can expect to enjoy substantial cost savings because of the
significant EV Early Adoption Incentive.

Building a Sustainable Singapore, Together
D24.

I spoke about policy measures that the Government will put in place to reduce
emissions. But the Government alone cannot address the threat of climate change.
Therefore, mobilising all of us in this effort is the third thrust of our climate change
strategy.

D25.

Robert Swan, the first person to have walked to the North and South Poles, once said,
"The greatest threat to our planet is the belief that someone else will save it."

D26.

To deal with climate change, we have to foster a climate of change in our community
– where everyone, whether as an individual, as a business leader, or as a community
leader, makes conscious decisions to lower our carbon footprint.

D27.

One such decision by individuals is our choice of household appliances.
a. To encourage households to purchase energy-efficient household appliances, we
will introduce incentives to help lower-income households with the cost of these
appliances.

D28.

Outside our homes, we earlier announced plans to add more greenery to our HDB
estates.

a. New housing developments will have around 45% to 60% green cover.
b. Residents are contributing through the community garden movement. Today,
more than 36,000 gardening enthusiasts are nurturing over 1,500 community
gardens island-wide. These gardens keep our shared neighbourhood vibrant, and
bring people closer together.
D29.

To make sustainable living a key feature of our HDB estates, we will have a new HDB
Green Towns Programme. It will have three key focus areas: reducing energy
consumption, recycling rainwater, and cooling our HDB towns.

Long-Term Adaptations to Climate Change
D30.

I spoke about how we are committing to global efforts, managing our carbon
constraints, and building a sustainable Singapore, together. We must try hard and we
will do our part. But the course of climate change depends on the commitment of all
nations. The risk of rising sea levels remains significant. So our fourth strategic thrust
is to prepare our island for rising sea levels.
a. The Minister for the Environment and Water Resources will elaborate on our
immediate plans at the COS.

D31.

PM mentioned at the National Day Rally last year that climate change adaptation
might cost $100 billion or more over 100 years. This is a major fiscal outlay in the
coming years – so it is right and prudent that we set aside resources for this.
a. I will set up a new Coastal and Flood Protection Fund, with an initial injection of
$5 billion. I will top it up subsequently whenever our fiscal situation allows.
b. We must have the resolve to deal head-on with the existential threat of rising sea
levels. Just as our pioneers planted the trees for us to enjoy, we must protect our
island for future generations to come.

D32.

Our food security may also come under threat, as imported supplies come under strain
from climate change or geopolitical tensions. To improve our food resilience, the
Minister for the Environment and Water Resources will provide more details of our
‘Grow Local’ strategy at the COS.

Securing Our Home
D33.

In uncertain times, there are many calls on our budget. However, we cannot take our
peace, prosperity, and stability for granted.
a. As a small city-state, we are particularly vulnerable to volatilities in our external
environment.

b. Securing our home remains a high priority in our Budget and must be funded
adequately. It is imperative that we continue to invest in our external, internal,
cyber, and data security, to keep Singapore and our families safe and secure.
D34.

Diplomacy and deterrence are the twin pillars of maintaining Singapore’s sovereignty.
a. We strive to build good relations with our neighbours and international partners,
and to promote a rules-based world order.

b. A strong Singapore Armed Forces supports our diplomatic efforts and ensures that
other countries take Singapore seriously. We must be ever ready to defend our
interests should negotiations fail.
c. We must continue to draw a credible deterrence, by maintaining our military and
technological edge, in a prudent manner that stretches every defence dollar.
D35.

Back home, we are committed to protecting our safety and our way of life.
a. Our Home Team agencies will continue to enhance the operational readiness of
their officers, leverage technology, and build partnerships with the community.
b. Singaporeans share a strong conviction to look out for each other and to partner
the Home Team to prevent and deal with terror threats and crisis, through the
SGSecure movement.

D36.

We must also be prepared to deal with cyber threats, as digitalisation becomes more
pervasive. Our cyber capabilities have been raised significantly, with the setting up of
the Cyber Security Agency, or CSA, in 2015, and the passing of the Cybersecurity Act
in 2018.
a. CSA is preparing measures for the next level of cybersecurity, as we adopt more
advanced technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, Cloud, and the Internet of
Things.
b. All of us, in the Government, enterprises and as individuals, will need to stay
vigilant and strengthen our cyber and data security capabilities.

D37.

Data security is also a vital prerequisite and key enabler of Singapore's Digital
Economy. It is key to preserving trust in a digitally-connected world.
a. We enacted the Personal Data Protection Act in 2012, and the Public Service has
adopted comprehensive measures to secure and protect citizens’ data.
b. As we embark on initiatives to realise our Smart Nation ambitions, we must
continue to enhance our cyber capabilities.

D38.

I will set aside $1 billion over the next three years to build up the Government's
cyber and data security capabilities, to safeguard citizens’ data and our critical
information infrastructure systems.

D39.

The respective Ministers will provide more details of the schemes to confront the
challenges of climate change and security.

A Fiscally Sustainable Singapore
D40.

As we lay out our plans for our economy, people, and environment, we must ensure
these plans are fiscally sustainable, so that we have the resources to deal with future
needs and challenges.

D41.

We must continue to plan our finances based on long-term structural drivers.
a. Revenue flows are difficult to project accurately – we can end up having more, or
less.
i.

In this term of government, we happen to have more, mainly due to
exceptional Statutory Board contributions from MAS, and increased stamp
duty collections.

ii.

We used some of the unexpected surpluses to save ahead for anticipated
needs, and shared some of the surpluses with Singaporeans.

iii. But we must not count on such revenue surprises to keep happening.
b. We must anticipate long-term spending needs and be disciplined to raise revenues
ahead of time, so that we can continue to provide quality public services to all
Singaporeans.
c. At the same time, we must be mindful of the uncertainties and downside risks to
our revenue.
i.

D42.

There are ongoing discussions to revise international tax rules under the Base
Erosion and Profit Shifting project, and we are actively participating in them.

Our fiscal strategy must also be equitable.
a. Major long-term infrastructure is lumpy, and requires hefty upfront investments.
But once built, they benefit many generations of Singaporeans.
b. Borrowing for such developments allows us to distribute the cost equitably across
current and future generations, without the need for sharp increases in taxes.

c. However, we must remain disciplined about our use of borrowing. We should
continue to pay for recurrent needs, like healthcare expenditure, through
recurrent revenues such as taxes.

D43.

i.

Our fiscal discipline has helped us to be among a select group of countries with
a triple-A credit rating.

ii.

This in turn lowers the borrowing costs of enterprises and households, and
promotes a virtuous cycle of economic growth.

We must also maintain our fiscal posture and leave enough to deal with unexpected
shocks and longer-term challenges.
a. The Constitution requires us to run a balanced budget over each term of
government. We are being prudent to preserve fiscal buffers, to ensure that we
have the wherewithal to stand our ground and bounce back quickly if the tide turns
against us.
b. This is how we have been able to respond decisively to fight the COVID-19
outbreak, and support Singaporeans and our workers.
c. And at the same time, to be able to set aside an Assurance Package for GST to help
Singaporeans in the years ahead.
d. The accumulated surpluses at the end of the term of government becomes part of
our past reserves, which are invested. Today, the Net Investment Returns
Contribution from our reserves is the biggest component of our revenue. This is
remarkable for a country with no natural resources of any kind.

Other Tax Changes
D44.

I am making further changes to our tax system to strengthen its resilience while
maintaining competitiveness. The details are in the Annex. [See Annex D-1.]

Budget Position
D45.

Let me summarise our overall budget position.

D46.

For FY2019, we expect an overall budget deficit of $1.7 billion, or 0.3% of GDP. The
deficit is $1.8 billion lower than the $3.5 billion deficit forecasted a year ago. This is
due mainly to lower-than-expected expenditures arising from unforeseen project
delays.

D47.

When we exclude the Government’s top-ups to funds and Net Investment Returns
Contribution from our reserves, we expect a basic deficit of $5.1 billion, or 1.0% of
GDP.

D48.

In the coming year, the Singapore economy faces considerable uncertainty, because
of heightened risks in the global economy, and the rapidly evolving COVID-19
outbreak. Hence, for FY2020, our budget position will be more expansionary, with a
larger basic deficit of $12.3 billion. This, together with the Stabilisation and Support
Package, will impart a considerable fiscal boost to the economy to address near-term
concerns.

D49.

On the whole, we expect an overall deficit of $10.9 billion or 2.1% of GDP. [See Annex
D-2.]

D50.

With our fiscal prudence since the beginning of this term of government, we have
sufficient accumulated fiscal surplus to fund the overall deficit in FY2020. There is no
draw on past reserves.

E.

PARTNERING SINGAPOREANS TO BUILD SINGAPORE TOGETHER

E1.

Mr Speaker Sir, we will face more complex challenges ahead, but we are in this for the
long haul. We can succeed only if we work together.

E2.

Our ongoing fight against the COVID-19 outbreak is a testament to how we can work
together.
a. Our healthcare workers and frontline officers are giving their all to keep us safe,
and care for those who are unwell.
b. And others – community groups, enterprises, and many volunteers have stepped
forward. Everyone has something to offer, and every action makes a difference.

E3.

This is the spirit of the Singapore Together movement, which I launched last June – to
build a democracy of deeds, mobilise the creative energies and commitment of
Singaporeans, find common cause, and beat the odds together, to build our future
Singapore.

E4.

We made a concerted effort to involve Singaporeans and stakeholders in our strategic
deliberations and budgeting process.
a. Over the course of the Budget 2020 consultations, my colleagues and I met almost
1,000 leaders from different parts of society, including our unions, enterprises,
social sector, and youths.

E5.

It was a very enriching experience for everyone, and I thank every participant. Some
of you will recognise your ideas in the Budget.
a. For example, we enhanced the internationalisation support schemes after
receiving feedback from TACs such as the Singapore Manufacturing Federation
and the Association of Banks in Singapore.
b. We provided more resources to support our people to take action to reduce
carbon footprint, after several youth leaders I met suggested this.

E6.

I also thank the talented students from Nanyang Polytechnic for the artistic
illustrations in my slides today.

E7.

Many Singaporeans are coming up with, and acting on, ideas to make Singapore a
better place.

E8.

The youth movement has been particularly strong.

a. In the area of climate change, youths like Ms Cheryl Lee and her team in the
Singapore Youth for Climate Action have been organising activities to encourage
youth to take action through simple lifestyle choices.
b. Ms Rohini D/O Ravindran is also contributing to the community, by conducting
photography and videography sessions for lower-income youth, to develop their
problem-solving skills and build a good foundation for them to excel.
E9.

In 2016, we set up the Our Singapore Fund, or OSF, to provide funding support for
ground-up efforts in the social domain.
a. Since then, the OSF has committed nearly $4.3 million to support over 240 groundup projects in culture, heritage, arts, and sports.
b. One example is Progress NEST started by Mr Akram Hanif, to support children from
low-income families.

E10.

Through these partnerships, we have been able to do more and do better. And we are
committed to making partnerships an integral part of how we will build our future
Singapore.

E11.

I will set aside $250 million to give greater momentum to our partnership efforts.
a. I will top up the OSF and extend the Fund beyond 2020 to support more groundup initiatives that Singaporeans are passionate about, across a wider range of
domains. [See Annex C-5.]
b. The Government is committed to expanding and scaling up successful ground-up
projects, such as those supported by the OSF.
c. The Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources will also be launching an
SG Eco Fund to support partnerships with the community and enterprises in our
sustainability efforts.

E12.

Channelling the energies of our people to key causes requires us to identify the
challenges of our time.
a. These challenges are multi-faceted and multi-dimensional, but they are ultimately
about how Singapore remains exceptional in an increasingly complex world.
b. The solutions will also come in all shapes and forms, from all levels of society –
from government policies to individual efforts on the ground. We must overcome
these challenges and find solutions together.

E13.

The Government will work with agencies and key stakeholders to identify major
societal challenges. This will help us focus our collective efforts on the challenges that
matter, and allow us to galvanise good ideas and solutions from the public.

E14.

We have issued several national innovation challenges to date, in the areas of energy,
land and liveability, ageing, urban mobility, and AI-enabled healthcare.
a. For example, our AI Healthcare Grand Challenge is drawing strong interest here,
and with partners from France and Germany.
b. Under the National Innovation Challenge in Ageing, we sought ideas to combine
different technologies to enable ageing in place, and deployed these solutions at
a precinct level.
c. While we are only in our initial phases, we have learnt useful lessons, and seen
encouraging results.

E15.

We will issue more specific challenges to encourage ground-up participation. These
include challenges in the social sector, where we have built many community
partnerships to better support children from low-income and vulnerable families, and
promote youth mental well-being, amongst other things.

E16.

The respective Ministers will provide more details of the schemes I have mentioned
in this section later.

E17.

I am excited about the prospect of stronger government-citizen partnerships in
overcoming these challenges, and look forward to the results that these partnerships
will yield.

E18.

As this Budget has many measures, MOF has prepared a booklet summarising the
measures, which I hope colleagues will find useful. With your permission, Mr Speaker,
may I ask the Clerks to distribute these to all Members of this House.

F.

CONCLUSION

F1.

Mr Speaker, Sir, let me say a few words in Mandarin before I conclude in English.

F2.

2019 冠状病毒的传播，为全球增添了很多不确定因素。病毒无国籍，防控无国
界。
a. 多个国家的政府、国际组织、科研以及医疗人员，也都在积极加强合作。
b. 中国采取了一系列高效有力措施，中国抗炎早日成功将对中国和全世界有所
帮助。

F3.

当前形势对我国的经济带来了广泛的影响。一些行业已经受到冲击。国人也担
心他们的就业前景。我可以理解。
a. 为了减轻企业以及国人所面对的压力，我将推出 40 亿元的“经济稳定与援
助配套”。
b. 为了协助国人应付家庭开销，我也将推出 16 亿元的“关怀与援助配套”。
c. 新加坡有足够的资金应对眼前的挑战。这是因为我们居安思危，未雨绸缪，
把这届政府的财政盈余储备起来，应对不时之需。

F4.

我国是否能够克服这次的挑战，将取决于国人是否能够互相扶持，维护社会凝
聚力。在面对许多未知时，大家难免会感到忧虑。但是，我们绝对不能出现恐
慌。大家要好好照顾自己的个人卫生，并为我们周边的人着想。同时，我们也
可以采取实际行动，帮助有需要的群体。

F5.

财政预算案是一个长期的战略规划，确保新加坡可以持续发展，国人可以过上
更美好的生活。我们在克服短期挑战的同时，也必须着眼应对长期的结构性转
变，并把握这些转变所带来的机遇。
a. 首先，我们必须继续推动企业转型，为国人创造更多机会。 所谓学无止境，
我们将通过“技能创前程计划”，鼓励国人在人生的每一个阶段，终生学习，
终生受用。我们也将推出“技能创前程中年转业援助配套”帮助中年人，掌
握新技能，胜任新工作。
b. 第二，我们会一起打造一个具有爱心和包容心的社会。我刚宣布消费税在
2021 年将保持在百分之七。但为了应付不断增加的开支，如医疗保健，我们
还是需要在 2025 年或之前调高消费税。消费税上调时，我们将继续帮助低
收入家庭，为他们提供更多援助。我将推出 60 亿元的“定心与援助配套”,
并且加强现有的永久性消费税补助券计划。

c. 第三，我们要继续推动国家建设，维护新加坡的安全与稳定，并确保我们拥
有可持续的财政体系。这是我们对子孙后代的承诺。尤其是应对气候变化,
我将拨款 50 亿元设立新的“海岸及洪水防护基金”。
d. 第四，我们将与国人风雨同舟，携手建设我们的国家，打造属于我们的家园。
F6.

所谓幼有所教、弱有所扶、老有所养、我们希望新加坡不仅是个养儿育女的好
地方，也是一个让年长人士过上有意义、有尊严生活的温馨家园。
a. 我们将改进现有的乐龄补贴计划，协助低收入年长人士应付开销，让他们的
退休生活更有保障。
b. 另外，我们将推出退休户头配对填补计划，帮助那些公积金存款不多的国人
填补他们的公积金储蓄。
c. 我们也鼓励年长国人保持身心活跃，过上充实的退休生活。

F7.

当今，全球局势不稳定，各国也面对结构性的转变。从长远来看, 应付突如其
来的病毒只是我们前进道路上的其中一个挑战。我们不能为此而停滞不前，必
须一起朝着共同的目标不断前进。正如“群策群力，共创未来”运动一样，只
要我们集思广益，携手同心，我们一定能排除万难，共创更美好的新加坡。

F8.

I will now conclude in English.

F9.

Mr Speaker Sir, There are deep structural shifts taking place in the world today,
coupled with near-term concerns over economic uncertainties and the COVID-19
outbreak. All nations, big or small, will have to devise strategies and mobilise their
people to navigate these changes and turbulence.

F10.

Singaporeans have enjoyed more than half a century of stability and prosperity
because we have seized the opportunities from an increasingly open and
interconnected world. Every decade or so, when a test comes, we have rallied and
passed it together.

F11.

In this Budget, I have outlined our plans not only to help our people deal with
near-term challenges, but also to better enable Singaporeans of all ages to thrive in
the new decade.
a. The Stabilisation and Support Package, costing $4 billion, will help viable
enterprises, and our workers during these uncertain times.
b. Our Transformation and Growth effort, costing $8.3 billion over three years, will
support our longer-term plans to position Singapore as a Global-Asia node of
technology, innovation, and enterprise.

c. The Care and Support Package, costing $1.6 billion, will support our households
and alleviate concerns over cost of living. This is on top of the structural social
subsidies given to Singaporeans in healthcare, education, and housing.
d. We will continue to take steps towards climate change mitigation and adaptation,
to ensure that in the decades ahead, our children and children’s children will have
a safe and liveable Singapore.
F12.

I am confident that together, we can ensure that Singapore remains exceptional.
a. As one Singapore, we will Grow our economy and transform our enterprises,
creating opportunities for Singaporeans.
b. As one Singapore, we will Care for and nurture Singaporeans at every stage of their
lives, to build a caring and inclusive society.
c. As one Singapore, we will Build a liveable and sustainable Singapore in the face of
climate change, Secure our sovereignty as an independent nation, and ensure our
fiscal sustainability.
d. And as one Singapore, we will work Together with fellow Singaporeans, to build a
nation and a home we will always call our own.

F13.

Our nation has built up the capital – financial, human, and social – to go the distance.
The Singapore spirit is strong and growing. Together, we will advance, as One
Singapore.

F14.

Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move.

